docs/usagepolicy.rst, before:

=====================================
High Performance Computing Use Policy
=====================================


All users of CFMS Services Ltd systems are required to accept and adhere to the following terms and conditions:

Acceptable Use Policy
=====================
CFMS relies on its computer and communications facilities to carry out its business.  All these facilities can be put at risk through improper or ill-informed use, and result in consequences which may be damaging to the centre, its customers or its employees.
Access to CFMS facilities is therefore granted solely for the purposes of meeting organisational objectives.  Usage of CFMS systems for unrelated activities is prohibited.

+ Making your personal username and password (also known as a “user account”) available for other people to use on your behalf.
+ Leave their user accounts logged in at an unattended and unlocked computer.
+ Use someone else’s user ID and password to access CFMS IT systems.
+ Leave their password unprotected (for example writing it down).
+ Attempting to gain or facilitate unauthorised access to a system..
+ Attempt to access data that they are not authorised to use or access.
+ Accessing another individual’s data, ICT systems or service without appropriate authorisation.
+ Exceed the limits of their authorisation or specific business need to interrogate the system or data.
+ Transmitting, downloading or storing any material such that this infringes the copyright of the owner.
+ Deliberately creating, storing or transmitting information which infringes the data protection registration of CFMS.


Data Storage Policy
===================
Data Availability
-----------------
All data uploaded or generated on the HPC cluster remains the responsibility of the user.   Although CFMS implement technologies to help ensure the availability of the data, the parallel filesystem is not backed up offsite, and in case of catastrophic failure, this data could be lost.

Data Encryption
---------------
Due to the significant performance impact imposed by encryption, our parallel filesystem is not encrypted.   If your company policy requires that data should be encrypted at rest, you will need to investigate if this can be supported by your application.

Data collection and data protection policy
------------------------------------------
The Data Protection Act 1988 (DPA) creates rights and responsibilities around how we handle the personal data we collect.
We are committed to ensuring that we comply with the eight data protection principles:

+ First principle - Personal data shall be processed fairly and lawfully.
+ Second principle - Personal data shall be obtained only for one or more specified and lawful purposes, and shall not be further processed in any manner incompatible with that purpose or those purposes.
+ Third principle - Personal data shall be adequate, relevant and not excessive in relation to the purpose or purposes for which they are processed.
+ Fourth principle - Personal data shall be accurate and, where necessary, kept up to date.
+ Fifth principle - Personal data processed for any purpose or purposes shall not be kept for longer than is necessary for that purpose or those purposes.
+ Sixth principle - Personal data shall be processed in accordance with the rights of data subjects under this Act.
+ Seventh principle - Appropriate technical and organisational measures shall be taken against unauthorised or unlawful processing of personal data and against accidental loss or destruction of, or damage to, personal data.
+ Eighth principle - Personal data shall not be transferred to a country or territory outside the European Economic Area, unless that country or territory ensures an adequate level of protection for the rights and freedoms of data subjects in relation to the processing of personal data.


What Information Do We Collect?
===============================
We ask you for:
+ Your first name and surname
+ Your institution or company
+ Your institutional/corporate email address.

We collect this information from you when you (or your organisation) register for an account on the CFMS HPC clusters or infrastructure.

In addition, when accessing CFMS systems, some other information might be collected:
+ IP address
+ Operating system of the computer used to access our system

How is Your Information Stored
------------------------------
We use your information solely to provide CFMS services, and information is stored on internal databases hosted within the CFMS datacenter.  This database is protected from external interference by means such as:
+ restricting access to specific trusted administrators
+ intrusion detection systems
+ regular security patching

We backup this database solely for business continuity purposes.

Data Deletion
-------------
We delete your information on demand.  Contact us via support@cfms.org.uk if you wish to have your personal data removed from our systems.

Data Visibility
---------------

The HPC clusters are intended primarily as collaborative resources, and so usernames, along with first name and last name are available to other users of the clusters.   No other personal information is provided to any other users.

Why Do We Collect This Information?
-----------------------------------

We collect this information to provide you with service on the CFMS systems.  Specifically:
+ Access to CFMS HPC clusters and other IT systems·
+ Technical support for the aforementioned systems, via support@cfms.org.uk
+ Information about planned service outages via email.

The Information Is Stored Because:
----------------------------------

+ We are bound by our information security policies to maintain an audit trail of all usage of computers owned by CFMS.
+ To allow us to comply with law/copyright enforcement
+ To provide appropriate technical support.



CFMS Services Ltd contact information
::
  Email:  support@cfms.org.uk
  Post:	CFMS Services Limited
  Bristol and Bath Science Park,
  Dirac Crescent
  Emersons Green
  BS16 7FR
  Telephone:  	+44 (0)117 9061100

Commit message:

added statement about changing home directory

docs/usagepolicy.rst, after:

=====================================
High Performance Computing Use Policy
=====================================


All users of CFMS Services Ltd systems are required to accept and adhere to the following terms and conditions:

Acceptable Use Policy
=====================
CFMS relies on its computer and communications facilities to carry out its business.  All these facilities can be put at risk through improper or ill-informed use, and result in consequences which may be damaging to the centre, its customers or its employees.
Access to CFMS facilities is therefore granted solely for the purposes of meeting organisational objectives.  Usage of CFMS systems for unrelated activities is prohibited.

+ Making your personal username and password (also known as a “user account”) available for other people to use on your behalf.
+ Leave their user accounts logged in at an unattended and unlocked computer.
+ Modify the permissions of your home directory to give other users access to your personal storage.
+ Use someone else’s user ID and password to access CFMS IT systems.
+ Leave their password unprotected (for example writing it down).
+ Attempting to gain or facilitate unauthorised access to a system..
+ Attempt to access data that they are not authorised to use or access.
+ Accessing another individual’s data, ICT systems or service without appropriate authorisation.
+ Exceed the limits of their authorisation or specific business need to interrogate the system or data.
+ Transmitting, downloading or storing any material such that this infringes the copyright of the owner.
+ Deliberately creating, storing or transmitting information which infringes the data protection registration of CFMS.


Data Storage Policy
===================
Data Availability
-----------------
All data uploaded or generated on the HPC cluster remains the responsibility of the user.   Although CFMS implement technologies to help ensure the availability of the data, the parallel filesystem is not backed up offsite, and in case of catastrophic failure, this data could be lost.

Data Encryption
---------------
Due to the significant performance impact imposed by encryption, our parallel filesystem is not encrypted.   If your company policy requires that data should be encrypted at rest, you will need to investigate if this can be supported by your application.

Data collection and data protection policy
------------------------------------------
The Data Protection Act 1988 (DPA) creates rights and responsibilities around how we handle the personal data we collect.
We are committed to ensuring that we comply with the eight data protection principles:

+ First principle - Personal data shall be processed fairly and lawfully.
+ Second principle - Personal data shall be obtained only for one or more specified and lawful purposes, and shall not be further processed in any manner incompatible with that purpose or those purposes.
+ Third principle - Personal data shall be adequate, relevant and not excessive in relation to the purpose or purposes for which they are processed.
+ Fourth principle - Personal data shall be accurate and, where necessary, kept up to date.
+ Fifth principle - Personal data processed for any purpose or purposes shall not be kept for longer than is necessary for that purpose or those purposes.
+ Sixth principle - Personal data shall be processed in accordance with the rights of data subjects under this Act.
+ Seventh principle - Appropriate technical and organisational measures shall be taken against unauthorised or unlawful processing of personal data and against accidental loss or destruction of, or damage to, personal data.
+ Eighth principle - Personal data shall not be transferred to a country or territory outside the European Economic Area, unless that country or territory ensures an adequate level of protection for the rights and freedoms of data subjects in relation to the processing of personal data.


What Information Do We Collect?
===============================
We ask you for:
+ Your first name and surname
+ Your institution or company
+ Your institutional/corporate email address.

We collect this information from you when you (or your organisation) register for an account on the CFMS HPC clusters or infrastructure.

In addition, when accessing CFMS systems, some other information might be collected:
+ IP address
+ Operating system of the computer used to access our system

How is Your Information Stored
------------------------------
We use your information solely to provide CFMS services, and information is stored on internal databases hosted within the CFMS datacenter.  This database is protected from external interference by means such as:
+ restricting access to specific trusted administrators
+ intrusion detection systems
+ regular security patching

We backup this database solely for business continuity purposes.

Data Deletion
-------------
We delete your information on demand.  Contact us via support@cfms.org.uk if you wish to have your personal data removed from our systems.

Data Visibility
---------------

The HPC clusters are intended primarily as collaborative resources, and so usernames, along with first name and last name are available to other users of the clusters.   No other personal information is provided to any other users.

Why Do We Collect This Information?
-----------------------------------

We collect this information to provide you with service on the CFMS systems.  Specifically:
+ Access to CFMS HPC clusters and other IT systems·
+ Technical support for the aforementioned systems, via support@cfms.org.uk
+ Information about planned service outages via email.

The Information Is Stored Because:
----------------------------------

+ We are bound by our information security policies to maintain an audit trail of all usage of computers owned by CFMS.
+ To allow us to comply with law/copyright enforcement
+ To provide appropriate technical support.



CFMS Services Ltd contact information
::
  Email:  support@cfms.org.uk
  Post:	CFMS Services Limited
  Bristol and Bath Science Park,
  Dirac Crescent
  Emersons Green
  BS16 7FR
  Telephone:  	+44 (0)117 9061100
